---
layout: post
title:  "Apple as a Single-sign-on service"
date:   Thu, 10 Nov 2011 01:48:00 -0500
category: blog
published: false
---

It’s curious to me that Apple is not yet a single sign-on provider and it
makes me question if the walled garden of Apples ecosystem will ever extend to
third party sites.

I really started to consider this question after I got an iPad and started to
realize how much data is accessible through the Apple ID, particularly with
iCloud and iTunes Music Match. It is likely, especially with email, contact,
and calendar data in iCloud, that a third party application might get great
value out of offering Apple as a single sign on partner. It is also likely
that Apple would be able to collect a great deal of information that could
help many of their consumer facing data plays more effective by renting out
this new device-graph.

When you consider what the layer of information stored in Apple isn’t really a
social network (besides failed attempts like Ping), but more of a
representation of a persons entire life. You have apps (great representations
of interests, for instance there are very few reasons a person will download a
MotoX app), tunes and digital media (great representations of preferences),
and Calendar and email data (great representations of behavior). I can only
imagine the potency when combined with social sources like Twitter and
Facebook.

Then again, there is real reason to doubt if Apple will be interested in
collecting more data through third party developers. After all, they’ve
maintained an ever more vaulted wall around their garden since the end of the
clone wars.

It will be interesting to see what happens. As the other Silicon Valley giants
race to liberate (or appear to liberate) the massive amounts of user data,
Apple predictably moves in the other direction.
