---
layout: post
title:  "WiFi WiFi Everywhere, even at 36,000 feet"
date:   Wed, 27 Jul 2011 10:00:00 -0400
category: blog
published: false
---

_OR_ **my Chromebook experience**

Last week I boarded a plane from SF to Chicago. I suppose the airline is
important for the story: I flew Virgin America. It was probably the most
enjoyable flight I've had in… forever?

But what blew everything else away was the awesome _Chromebook_ I got to test
out. In the terminal, there was a kiosk of _Chomexperts_ lending
_Chromebooks_. All I had to do was give them my credit card so I can't steal
the device.

The boot-up time was insane. Literally 8 seconds. My MacBook does a pretty
decent job with Lion but you can tell that some engineers spent a long time
shaving precious time off the startup.

But there were also some interesting aspects of the keyboard. For instance,
the _Caps Lock_ was replaced with a search button that automatically puts the
focus on a search query. And there were a bunch more keys that clearly only a
computer that ran in a browser would need. For instance, a dedicated key for
refreshing a page, as well as keys for traversing the browsing history. You
could also make a tab full screen and have no other distractions with a simple
button.

And you access the device with your standard Google account. It brings in all
of your services in the expected way. That was a disappoint feature, to tell
you the truth, because I would have expected some of the applications to have
Chromebook specific behavior. The only one in the standard suite that did was
Google Talk, which worked very much like Facebook chat if it wasn't isolated
to the browser window.

So a Chromebook is useless without the internet, after all the point Google is
making with Chrome OS is that we utilize the Cloud for so many of our
services, that the OS becomes obsolete. And to that end, Virgin America hooked
it up with free WiFi at 36,000 feet.

Now its not blazingly fast, but I sat in a chair in the SKY surfing the
internet and chatting in real time with my friends far below me. To be fair,
YouTube couldn't really load any videos and I couldn't consume streaming media
but I'm not sure that was the fault of the Chromebook. I would assume that its
the internet on the PLANE! (Sorry, I can't get over that little fact).

The Chromebook itself, seemed fast enough to handle all the processes I was
trying to do. The trackpad has some funky interactions, but I think that's
because I hand-mumble as I use a trackpad.

Overall, awesome experience. Thanks Google & Virgin for making my flight
awesome. Its so nice when it actually feels like 2011 :)

 _![](http://media.tumblr.com/tumblr_lscyi1UWZq1qhduxc.jpg)_

_![](http://media.tumblr.com/tumblr_lscyj8oe4w1qhduxc.jpg)  
_
