---
layout: post
title:  "Recalling the Civil War, politically"
date:   Tue, 19 Jul 2011 10:06:06 -0400
category: blog
---

I remember learning about the Civil War in middle school; I know it by that
name because I’m from San Francisco, but some of my Southern friends refer to
it _kindly_ as the _War of Northern Aggression_. I remember that the
presumption was that the Southern states were fighting a war to retain
slavery, to retain their overtly racist way of life; of course I don’t mean to
say the Northern residents were necessarily liberal or tolerant, simply that
racism just wasn’t codified in statue and culture the way it was in the South.
I remember being taught the _true_ version, the narrative of state’s rebelling
to retain their rights, their essence. My teachers repeatedly told us, “the
Civil War was not about slavery”; but, of course, it was.

And I see the Tea Party now. The party that is up in arms about Obama’s
federalist government and its apparently increasing presence (though the
Federal work force has actually shrunk to incredibly low levels since 2010). I
see them arguing nominally for State’s rights, for localized politics. But I
never saw them act with any sort of fervor during the insane expanse of
federal government powers during the past EIGHT years of George Bush. There
were no massive rallies against the Patriot Act, no massive rallies against
warrantless wiretapping, no public outcry from the now-Tea Party over
expensive wars across the world. I find it telling that after 96 months of
complacency, 18 months was just too much and something just had to be done.
But telling of what?

I’m not necessarily saying that Tea Party members are overtly racist and I’m
definitely not saying that they want slaves. But I think just as State’s right
was a rallying cry for a regressive (particularly with regards to equality)
politic during the middle of the 19thcentruy, [Tentherism](http://www.alternet
.org/teaparty/148593/tentherism%3A_the_bizarre_ideology_behind_tea_partiers'_p
lans_to_kill_social_security_and_child_labor_laws/) is serving to unite the
same body, and I can’t help but notice the challenge to their worldview that
preceded their “revolution”: a non-white, young man in the White House. If the
members of the Tea Party want to be taken seriously by the rest of the
country, it would behoove them to acquire a little more credibility with
regards to their anger.
