---
layout: post
title:  "Developer Middle Class Squeezing"
date:   Tue, 18 Oct 2011 02:24:15 -0400
category: blog
---

Hark back to the year 2008; do you remember what was different then? Sure, the
world economy was collapsing, we were in a heated political battle between
McCain and Obama; things were uncertain, including something we take for
granted today: the penetration of mobile.

I’m sure we’ve all seen [Mary Meeker’s
chart](http://gigapple.files.wordpress.com/2009/10/mary-meeker-mobile-
internet-adoption.png?w=590&h=430) of the growth of mobile versus other
internet-based technologies, so no need to rehash here. However, I remember
starting on [an iPhone app](http://itunes.apple.com/us/app/davis-routes-
lite/id407185139?mt=8) in 2008, and I remember my dad asking me if I thought
that the iPhone would take off. Today, that seems like the most ridiculous
question. But in 2008, we didn’t have any handsets that weren’t under the
direct control of the carriers.

Fast forward three short years, and apps have become a sweet spot in this
dismal economy. Mobile ad spends are approaching multiple billions of dollars
per year; it seems like every day a new mobile startup is starting, growing,
and being bought by some major player. Meanwhile, a whole class of mobile
developers has ridden the wave up.

Now I’m not talking about the Zynga, Rovio, or the Instagram crews. I’m not
talking about the terrible apps that are never downloaded more than once
(probably on the developer’s mom’s phone). I’m referring to the middle class
of mobile developers. The developers with decent skills and decent ideas, but
who can not cut through all the noise to make enough revenue off their apps
full-time.

Its this group of developers that will likely be squeezed the most. Its
companies that serve this cohort of developers with easy-to-use tools and
provide end results with dollars attached that will thrive.
