---
layout: post
title:  "Compulsory Comments: Another Bubble?"
date:   Tue, 19 Jul 2011 13:33:05 -0400
category: blog
---

To be honest, I don’t really concern myself with the question of is this a
bubble or not. If it isn’t a _bubble_, it is at least a great boom. And booms
are almost always followed by some derivative of bust.

I think the real question is what is the risk of the mania. I define risk as
probability-of-occurrence multiplied by an impact coefficient. Thus, even if
something is incredibly unlikely (statistically speaking), if the impact is
extreme then the situation must at least be given some thought.

Until the recent tech-IPO mania (Groupon, LinkedIn soon-to-be Zynga), a great
deal of the risk was borne by institutional investors, by _savvy_ venture
capitalists. This was declared to be a departure from the dot-com bubble of
the late 90s when the public financial markets exposed many average people’s
wealth to the vacillation.

And I agree with that. If many of the current tech companies that have
received so much in private capital went bust, the losses would amount to
fortunes, but the fortunes of investors who profess to be intelligent and
informed.

Though I was just at a recent panel of VCs, one of whom said that this time
would be different because now _intelligent_ investors will be the ones buying
the securities; the same _intelligent_ investors who bought so many mortgage
backed securities. Remember those?

However, now as many investors seek to harness the great IPO climate as an
exit strategy, the fortunes of average people become intertwined with the
fortunes of these tech companies. And I’m not so sure that’s the greatest
thing.
