---
title: GUIs for CLIs?
description: Programs that are only available as command line tools are often powerful but out of reach for less technical users. Maybe they should have configurable UIs.
prism: true
---

Command line tools are super useful. They often do one thing and do it very well. But the lack of a point-and-click style interface means that people who don't feel comfortable on the terminal can't use the program.

But what if the CLI tools had graphic user interfaces? CLIs with GUIs - that has a nice ring to it.

I'm not saying those developers should instead build web apps. I'm just wondering if there's a way we can bundle command line tools with something that allows more people to use them by generating something they're more familiar with: a website with form fields.

I've been wondering this for a while, since at least September 2019 when I created [`cli-gui`](https://github.com/jeremiak/cli-gui), a project that has just sat on my Github accuring Digital Ocean bills since then though I never wrote about it until now. 

And I started thinking about it again this week when two things happened:

1. A colleague needed some help downloading a copy of a website.
2. I came across [textual](https://textual.textualize.io/), a very cool Python library for building "text user interfaces", through one of the many [Changelog podcast](https://changelog.com/) feeds.

Together, those two events reminded me that there's still a need for this kind of thing. There are _so many_ tools that are only available as CLI programs and they're only available to people who brave the shell prompt. Here's a short, and obviously unexhaustive, list of the ones that come to mind:

1. [`ffmpeg`](https://ffmpeg.org/) - All purpose video manipulation
2. [`sherlock`](https://sherlock-project.github.io/) - Searching user names across many social networks
3. [`youtube-dl`](http://ytdl-org.github.io/youtube-dl/) - Download videos from YouTube
4. [`mapshaper`](https://mapshaper.org/) - All purpose geographic data manipulation
5. [`wget`](https://www.gnu.org/software/wget/) - Download a copy of a website

So is there is a way we can create a configuration file that would take any of these tools and allow an interface to be scaffolded? Even though these tools do widely different things they all work on similar principles: they take options and arguments and then output something, usually to standard out or to a file.

The `cli-gui` project was my first go at a framework for wrapping command-line tools in a web page with form fields. It used a `config.js` file to determine what fields were created for each tool and attempted to use Docker as a way to reliably and safely run scripts. I haven't really touched Docker since and I'm not completely sure it's all that "safe" - I just make websites and do data journalism, I don't really know how computers work. From my limited perspective, we tricked rocks into thinking and, honestly, maybe it was a mistake.

The `sherlock` tool takes a single argument with no flag, just the username to search. Here's what the generated interface looks:

<figure>

   ![A website comprised of an "Input" section with a text input field with a value of "sherlock" and a "Run" button and an "Output" section where the results of running "sherlock sherlock" are streamed from the Docker container with the checked social networks and if the username "sherlock" exists there.](https://github.com/jeremiak/cli-gui/raw/master/example.gif)

   <figcaption>Animated gif showing the cli-gui interface running the sherlock CLI to look for the username "sherlock"</figcaption>
</figure>

As you can see in the animated GIF above, `cli-gui` was set up to allow a user to provide a single parameter to `sherlock` with the label "Enter username for search query". Here's what the configuration looks like to create that UI and the corresponding [documentation](https://github.com/jeremiak/cli-gui#adding-a-cli-tool):

```js
{
   id: 'sherlock',
   image: 'sherlock:latest',
   description: 'Sherlock is a tool for searching for a username across many social networks (<a href="https://github.com/sherlock-project/sherlock">website</a>)',
   fields: [
     {
       name: 'username',
       label: 'Enter username for search query',
       defaultValue: '',
       type: 'string',
     },
   ],
   format: (fields) => {
     const { username } = fields
     return username
   }
 }
 ```

The idea is that you can have a set of fields, defined in the `fields` array and in this case just a string called `username`, along with a function that accepts all of those fields to return the text formatted to pass to the command-line tool. Specifically, the command that gets executed for a `username` of "jeremiak" is "sherlock jeremiak". The function provides flexibility to take any number of fields and format them appropriately for the underlying tool.

JavaScript is my [go to language](/blog/deno-by-default/) and the major reason is because I know it. Usage begets usage. But a feature that keeps me hooked is that you can express yourself in many different patterns: objects, functions, promises, streams, and more. And that was useful for `cli-gui` because I can stream the results of the tool straight to the browser as the program executes in Docker. Neat.

Reading through the code for `cli-gui` has me scratching my head and I'm shaking it looking at the interface. I definitely don't think _this_ is the thing that's going to make command line utilities easier to run. But I still like some of the core ideas four (long) years later and I still have a use case for it.